cheatsheets/docker.md, before:

# Docker Cheatsheet

## Handling images

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker images` | List all the images present in the system.
`docker run -ti <image> <command>` | Create a container, by run a command in an image, with a _'terminal interactive'_ so command are captured from the keyboard and print on the screen.
`docker ps --format $FORMAT` | Have a look at the running images, also stopped, using a custom format $^1$.
`docker ps -a` | Show stopped containers.
`docker ps -l` | Show the last container that exit (a stopped container).
`docker commit <container>` | Create an image, from a container (as opposed to run), and output its sha256 ID.
`docker tag <image-id> <tag-name>` | Associate a tag name to a newly created image.

## Run process

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run -ti --rm <image> <command>` | Create a container, run the command, use stdio (`-ti`), remove after (`--rm`).
`docker run -ti --rm <image> bash -c "command 1; command 2 && command 3"` | Run multiple commands.
`docker run -d -ti <image> <command>` | Run the container and detach from it.
`docker attach <container>` | Connect to a running container.
`ctrl-p ctrl-q` | Detach a running container.
`docker exec -ti <image> <command>` | Run another command in a running container.
`docker run --name <name> -d <image> <command>` | Create a container with a specified name.

## Manage containers

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker log <container>` | Print the output of the container.
`docker kill <container>` | Stop a running container.
`docker rm <container>` | Remove a container.
`docker run --memory <max-mem> <image> <command>` | Limit the memory used by the container.
`docker run --cpu-shares <cpu-rel> <image> <command>` | Limit the CPU relative % used by the container.
`docker run --cpu-quota <max-cpu> <image> <command>` | Limit the CPU absolute % used by the container.

## Exposing a network port

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run -p <in-port>:<out-port> <image> <command>` | Expose a TCP port from inside the container to outside.
`nc host.docker.internal <port>` | Access server port from inside the container (on MAC OS).
`docker run -p <in-port> <image> <command>` | Expose a TCP port from inside the container, but let docker choose the outside port.
`docker port <container>` | Print the assigned port of the container.
`docker run -p <in-port>:<out-port>/udp <image> <command>` | Expose an UDP port from inside the container to outside.

## Working with Networks

By default docker has three network available:

- _bridge_: default network used by containers
- _host_: expose direct access of the host network to the container
- _none_: do not allow network connections at all

Container names are important, since can also be used in network commands to access other containers, like `ping <container_name>`.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker network ls` | List available networks.
`docker network create <net_name>` | Create a network.
`docker run --rm -ti --net <net_name> --name <name>` | Give container access to the network.
`docker network connect <net_name> <container>` | Connect a container to a network.

## Legacy Linking

- _Legacy Linking_ will link all ports one way.
- Also _secret environment variables_ are shared only one way.
- This is not anymore used, and create dependencies on the startup order.
- Restart sometimes break the link.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run --rm -ti -e TST=blabla --name serverA <image> <command>` | Create a container with an environment variale TST.
`docker run --rm -ti --link serverA --name serverB <image> <command>` | Create a container and link it to the one named _serverA_. ServerA _cannot_ connect to the serverB, but ServerB can connect to ServerA and also read the ENV as SERVERA_ENV_TST.

## Images

The tag of an image taken from registry server host:port, should have this structure:
_<registry_host>:<port>/<organization>/<image-name>:version-tag_.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker images` | List all the images downloaded.
`docker commit <container> <image>:<tag>` | Create a new image from the container. If not specified the TAG will be equal to latest.
`docker pull` | Pull an image from a registry.
`docker push` | Push a new image to a registry.
`docker rmi` | Remove an image.

## ID

Docker has two sets of `IDs`, one for images, and one for containers, that do not overlap.

_Container_ and _Images_ can be referenced in commands by NAMEs, TAGs, IDs, and also only the first characters of IDs.



---------

# Notes

- **1**: An example format for printing in multiple row, defined trough an environment variable, can be set running the command: ```export FORMAT="\nID\t{{.ID}}\nIMAGE\t{{.Image}}\nCOMMAND\t{{.Command}}\nCREATED\t{{.RunningFor}}\nSTATUS\t{{.Status}}\nPORTS\t{{.Ports}}\nNAMES\t{{.Names}}\n"```

Commit message:

feat: add volumes in docker

cheatsheets/docker.md, after:

# Docker Cheatsheet

## Handling images

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker images` | List all the images present in the system.
`docker run -ti <image> <command>` | Create a container, by run a command in an image, with a _'terminal interactive'_ so command are captured from the keyboard and print on the screen.
`docker ps --format $FORMAT` | Have a look at the running images, also stopped, using a custom format $^1$.
`docker ps -a` | Show stopped containers.
`docker ps -l` | Show the last container that exit (a stopped container).
`docker commit <container>` | Create an image, from a container (as opposed to run), and output its sha256 ID.
`docker tag <image-id> <tag-name>` | Associate a tag name to a newly created image.

## Run process

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run -ti --rm <image> <command>` | Create a container, run the command, use stdio (`-ti`), remove after (`--rm`).
`docker run -ti --rm <image> bash -c "command 1; command 2 && command 3"` | Run multiple commands.
`docker run -d -ti <image> <command>` | Run the container and detach from it.
`docker attach <container>` | Connect to a running container.
`ctrl-p ctrl-q` | Detach a running container.
`docker exec -ti <image> <command>` | Run another command in a running container.
`docker run --name <name> -d <image> <command>` | Create a container with a specified name.

## Manage containers

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker log <container>` | Print the output of the container.
`docker kill <container>` | Stop a running container.
`docker rm <container>` | Remove a container.
`docker run --memory <max-mem> <image> <command>` | Limit the memory used by the container.
`docker run --cpu-shares <cpu-rel> <image> <command>` | Limit the CPU relative % used by the container.
`docker run --cpu-quota <max-cpu> <image> <command>` | Limit the CPU absolute % used by the container.

## Exposing a network port

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run -p <in-port>:<out-port> <image> <command>` | Expose a TCP port from inside the container to outside.
`nc host.docker.internal <port>` | Access server port from inside the container (on MAC OS).
`docker run -p <in-port> <image> <command>` | Expose a TCP port from inside the container, but let docker choose the outside port.
`docker port <container>` | Print the assigned port of the container.
`docker run -p <in-port>:<out-port>/udp <image> <command>` | Expose an UDP port from inside the container to outside.

## Working with Networks

By default docker has three network available:

- _bridge_: default network used by containers
- _host_: expose direct access of the host network to the container
- _none_: do not allow network connections at all

Container names are important, since can also be used in network commands to access other containers, like `ping <container_name>`.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker network ls` | List available networks.
`docker network create <net_name>` | Create a network.
`docker run --rm -ti --net <net_name> --name <name>` | Give container access to the network.
`docker network connect <net_name> <container>` | Connect a container to a network.

## Legacy Linking

- _Legacy Linking_ will link all ports one way.
- Also _secret environment variables_ are shared only one way.
- This is not anymore used, and create dependencies on the startup order.
- Restart sometimes break the link.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run --rm -ti -e TST=blabla --name serverA <image> <command>` | Create a container with an environment variale TST.
`docker run --rm -ti --link serverA --name serverB <image> <command>` | Create a container and link it to the one named _serverA_. ServerA _cannot_ connect to the serverB, but ServerB can connect to ServerA and also read the ENV as SERVERA_ENV_TST.

## Images

The tag of an image taken from registry server host:port, should have this structure:
_<registry_host>:<port>/<organization>/<image-name>:version-tag_.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker images` | List all the images downloaded.
`docker commit <container> <image>:<tag>` | Create a new image from the container. If not specified the TAG will be equal to latest.
`docker pull` | Pull an image from a registry.
`docker push` | Push a new image to a registry.
`docker rmi` | Remove an image.

## Volumes

There are two types of volumes:

- _Persistent_: data is available also after the container goes away.
- _Ephemeral_: when no container is using them, the disappear.

Command | Description
:-- | :--
`docker run -ti -v <local_path>:<container_path> <image> <command>` | Create a _persistent_ volume from a folder.
`docker run -ti -v <local_file>:<container_file> <image> <command>` | Create a _persistent_ volume from a file, that should exist _before_ the container is created.
`docker run -ti -v <volume_name> <image> <command>` | Create a container with an _ephemeral_ volume.
`docker run -ti --volumes-from <container>  <image> <command>` | Create a container that will use the _ephemeral_ volume of another container.

## Registries




## ID

Docker has two sets of `IDs`, one for images, and one for containers, that do not overlap.

_Container_ and _Images_ can be referenced in commands by NAMEs, TAGs, IDs, and also only the first characters of IDs.



---------

# Notes

- **1**: An example format for printing in multiple row, defined trough an environment variable, can be set running the command: ```export FORMAT="\nID\t{{.ID}}\nIMAGE\t{{.Image}}\nCOMMAND\t{{.Command}}\nCREATED\t{{.RunningFor}}\nSTATUS\t{{.Status}}\nPORTS\t{{.Ports}}\nNAMES\t{{.Names}}\n"```
